HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol. when you click or enter
and web address your browser uses HTTP to understand what it is you're
lookiong for and the server responds with the page/s you want

URL stands for Unifrom Resource Locator, it is a web address that locates
retrieves resources.

DNS stands for Domain Name Syestem. When you type a web address into your
browser your computer starts a DNS request to find the IP address that
is attached to the web address. Your computer checks frist the local DNS
cache but if it is not there it sends the request to a DNS resolver.
the DNS resolver will translate ther domain name into an IP address. If
the IP address is still not found then the request is sent to Root DNS
servers whhich are for top-level domain names. Once the request is found
your coputer can connect you to the web server and you can access the
chosen web page

a query string is a part of a web address that containes information
in the form of key-value pairs. it always starts with a question mark
and questions are separated by '&'.

GET and POST
GET is used to request data from a resource
POST is used to submit data to a resource

an HTTP request is messge setn by a web browser to a serve that requests
an action or often a resource.

an HTTP response is the reply to the requestsent by a server to a
web browser

HTTP headers provide additional information about a request or response
they contain metedata that says how thr message should be processed,
or displayed

First the browser check its cache to see if the IP address is already known
if not it will send the requet to a DNS server. after this the browser can
make a connection with, in our case; somesite.com.
After this the browser wull send a HTTP GET request to get the specific
resource /some/page.html.
the server will generate a response containing the resource (page.html).
Now the broweser can process the HTML, CSS, JAvascript and whatever other
resources there may be and render them on the users screen.